Add rst example of using H2O with deepchecks (#1400)
deepchecks/deepchecks: docs/source/user-guide/integrations/h2o.rst

============================
H2O
============================

`H2O <https://docs.h2o.ai/h2o/latest-stable/h2o-docs/automl.html>`__ is
a widely used AutoML framework, written in Java but with multiple fully
implemented API libraries, including one in python. In this example,

> we’ll be showing how you can effortlessly test your H2O model with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we’ll demonstrate how to effortlessly test your H2O model with
```

deepchecks in the exact same way you can test any sklearn model.

This example can be run using

> `colab <https://colab.research.google.com/github/deepchecks/deepchecks/tree/examples/integrations/h2o/deepchecks_h2o_tutorial.ipynb>`__.

Reviewer: Following our discussion. - we'll refer to our repo (with the py code) in the link ("note" at the top, like in the gallery notebooks)

.. code:: ipython3

    train_df, test_df = adult.load_data(data_format='Dataframe', as_train_test=True)

Now we’ll build an H2O `H2OGradientBoostingEstimator <https://docs.h2o.ai/h2o/latest-stable/h2o-py/docs/modeling.html#h2o.estimators.gbm.H2OGradientBoostingEstimator>`__ based on this
dataset split.

.. code:: ipython3

    import h2o
    h2o.init()

H2O models can only train and predict on H2OFrame objects.

.. code:: ipython3

    train_h2o = h2o.H2OFrame(train_df)

.. code:: ipython3

    gbm = h2o.estimators.gbm.H2OGradientBoostingEstimator();

We must tell the H2O model what are the feature columns and what is the
name of the label column.

.. code:: ipython3

    feature_cols = adult._FEATURES
    label_col = adult._target

.. code:: ipython3

    gbm.train(x=feature_cols, y=label_col, training_frame=train_h2o, verbose=False);

To compare to our new H2O model, we’ll download the default scikit-learn
model (a pipeline containing a naive Random Forest Classifier) for this
task from deepchecks.

.. code:: ipython3

    skmodel = adult.load_fitted_model()

Running deepchecks on H2O
=========================

> before we can run deepchecks on our H2O model, we have one step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we can run deepchecks on our H2O model, we have one step
```

remaining - bridging between the API of the H2O model and the
scikit-learn API that deepchecks expects.

We have created a simple wrapper for our H2O model, that implements the required API for deepchecks according the the
:doc: `</user-guide/tabular/supported_models>` guide. This wrapper is available from
`deepchecks.tabular.integrations.h2o`.

Generally the wrapper model will contain 2 functions in
case of a classification problem: the ``predict`` and the ``predict_proba`` functions that will be called by
deepchecks. In addition, it is also possible to specify the feature importances of the model. Read more about

> feature importance handling in the :doc: `</user-guide/tabular/feature_importance>` guide.

Reviewer: Would you say it is possible or recommended?
(do h2o models have it built-in? if so we can demonstrate also how etc.)

Asking here since the feature importance topic is a sensitive one computation-time wise (and affect user's experience)

Author: In this case it isn't computed to to long projected time, so would say that in that case if you want it, you better give it yourself.

.. code:: ipython3

    from deepchecks.tabular.integrations.h2o import H2OWrapper
    h2o_dc_gbm = H2OWrapper(gbm)

Now we can run deepchecks! We’ll start by defining the deepchecks

> Dataset objects and comparing the two models.

Reviewer: recommendation - add to the "Dataset" object a reference link (to the user guide or api reference)

.. code:: ipython3

    from deepchecks.tabular import Dataset

.. code:: ipython3

    train_ds = Dataset(train_df, label=label_col, features=feature_cols, cat_features=adult._CAT_FEATURES)
    test_ds = Dataset(test_df, label=label_col, features=feature_cols, cat_features=adult._CAT_FEATURES)

Comparing model performance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: ipython3

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import MultiModelPerformanceReport

.. code:: ipython3

    MultiModelPerformanceReport().run(train_ds, test_ds, [h2o_dc_gbm, skmodel])

We can see that from an overall performance standpoint (considering the
f1 metric), the H2O model achieves superior performance compared to the

> sklearn model, especially in the smaller class.

Reviewer: If we have this text in the rst then we have to combine also a graph of the results (otherwise it's a bit weird)
So either change the text and only explain what we're doing and what they'll be able to see (the performance on all classes etc...) or add the results

We next wish to get a more in depth evaluation of the H2O model. For example,
we can use the SegmentPerformance check to compare the performance of
the two models across segments of the sex and relationship status
features.

.. code:: ipython3

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import SegmentPerformance
    # For a reason that has to do with the way h2o handles multiprocessing, we must change the parallel_backend from
    # loky to threading for all the of the checks to be able to compute while the h2o model is inferring.
    from sklearn.utils import parallel_backend
    with parallel_backend('threading', n_jobs=2):
        result_h2o = SegmentPerformance(feature_1='sex', feature_2='relationship').run(test_ds, h2o_dc_gbm)
        
    result_skl = SegmentPerformance(feature_1='sex', feature_2='relationship').run(test_ds, skmodel)

.. parsed-literal::

    Calculating permutation feature importance. Expected to finish in 56 seconds

.. code:: ipython3

    result_h2o

.. code:: ipython3

    result_skl

We see that the scikit-learn model, apart from being worse overall, is
specifically worse (a drop in accuracy of 0.6) at predicting the income

> of females with a relationship status of “Others”.

Reviewer: Same comment as above (about viewing the results)

> of females with a relationship status of “Others”.

Reviewer: Finishing off the notebook - currently feels a bit "cut in the middle"
consider with a general sentence or two?  (e.g. summarizing the high-level steps required, the fact that now they can run any check/suite etc.)

> Using deepchecks with an H2O Model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
============================
H2O
```
This title will show up on the Integration table of content, so it should be short and clear.

==================================

`H2O <https://docs.h2o.ai/h2o/latest-stable/h2o-docs/automl.html>`__ is

> a wildly used AutoML framework, written in Java but with multiple fully

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a widely used AutoML framework, written in Java but with multiple fully
```

Reviewer 4: Personally I think that auto-ML is pretty wild

> implemented api libraries, including one in python. In this example,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
implemented API libraries, including one in python. In this example,
```

we’ll be showing how you can effortlessly test your H2O model with
deepchecks in the exact same way you can test any sklearn model.

Building an H2O Model
---------------------

First we’ll load our dataset, using the adult dataset that can be
downloaded from the `UCI machine learning
repository <http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml>`__ and is also available

> in `deepchecks.tabular.datasets`.

Reviewer 3: Why mention UCI if you refer to deepchecks anyway?

.. code:: ipython3

    import warnings

>     warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')

Reviewer 3: This is in order for the output to be clearer and without warnings?
Wondering if we maybe need to say something about this.

Reviewer 2: If the code is not actually running (e.g. we're not displaying output), we don't need the filter.

    from deepchecks.tabular.datasets.classification import adult

.. code:: ipython3

    train_df, test_df = adult.load_data(data_format='Dataframe', as_train_test=True)

> Now we’ll build an H2O H2OGradientBoostingEstimator based on this

Reviewer 2: Maybe a link to the model?

dataset split.

.. code:: ipython3

    import h2o

>     h2o.no_progress()

Reviewer 2: no need

    h2o.init()

H2O models can only train and predict on H2OFrame objects.

.. code:: ipython3

    train_h2o = h2o.H2OFrame(train_df)

.. code:: ipython3

    gbm = h2o.estimators.gbm.H2OGradientBoostingEstimator()

>     print('Trained!')

Reviewer 3: Why the print?

Author: Otherwise H2O training prints a huge printout

Reviewer: Alternative - add `;` at the end of previous line...

We must tell the H2O model what are the feature columns and what is the
name of the label column.

.. code:: ipython3

    feature_cols = adult._FEATURES
    print(feature_cols)
    label_col = adult._target

>     print(label_col)

Reviewer 3: Why not use Dataset object to begin with, and then use the in-built features of the Dataset object to show the label and features?

.. code:: ipython3

    gbm.train(x=feature_cols, y=label_col, training_frame=train_h2o, verbose=False)

>     print('Trained!')

Reviewer 3: Well this is actually where it should be but it's still an unnecessary print

To compare to our new H2O model, we’ll download the default scikit-learn
model (a pipeline containing a naive Random Forest Classifier) for this
task from deepchecks.

.. code:: ipython3

    skmodel = adult.load_fitted_model()

Running deepchecks on H2O
=========================

before we can run deepchecks on our H2O model, we have one step

> remaining - bridging between the api of the H2O model and the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
remaining - bridging between the API of the H2O model and the
```

> scikit-learn api that deepchecks expects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scikit-learn API that deepchecks expects.
```

We will write a wrapper to our H2O model, that will implement the required API for deepchecks according the the

> :doc: `</user-guide/tabular/supported_models>` guide. Generally the wrapper model will contain 2 functions in

Reviewer 3: How does this url look like? It's without text so I guess it'll put the full url?

Reviewer 2: It will show the document title

case of a classification problem: the ``predict`` and the ``predict_proba`` functions that will be called by
deepchecks. In addition it is also possible to specify the feature importances of the model. Read more about

> feature importance handling in the :doc: `</user-guide/tabular/feature_importance>` guide.

Reviewer 3: OMG a reference! I'm honored

.. code:: ipython3

    import pandas as pd
    import numpy as np

>     class H2OWrapper:

Reviewer 3: Why don't we just have this class built-in in the package?

            
        def predict(self, df: pd.DataFrame) -> np.array:
            return self.model.predict(h2o.H2OFrame(df)).as_data_frame().values[:, 0]
    
        def predict_proba(self, df: pd.DataFrame) -> np.array:
            return self.model.predict(h2o.H2OFrame(df)).as_data_frame().values[:, 1:].astype(float)

.. code:: ipython3

    h2o_dc_gbm = H2OWrapper(gbm)

Now we can run deepchecks! We’ll start by defining the deepchecks
Dataset objects and comparing the two models.

.. code:: ipython3

    from deepchecks.tabular import Dataset

.. code:: ipython3

    train_ds = Dataset(train_df, label=label_col, features=feature_cols, cat_features=adult._CAT_FEATURES)
    test_ds = Dataset(test_df, label=label_col, features=feature_cols, cat_features=adult._CAT_FEATURES)

Comparing model performance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code:: ipython3

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import MultiModelPerformanceReport

.. code:: ipython3

    MultiModelPerformanceReport().run(train_ds, test_ds, [h2o_dc_gbm, skmodel])

We can see that from an overall performance standpoint (considering the
f1 metric), the H2O model achieves superior performance compared to the

> sklearn model, especially in the less abundant class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sklearn model, especially in the smaller class.
```

> Deeper model performance evaluation

Reviewer 3: "deep" suggests deep-learning here...

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We next wish to get a deeper evaluation of the H2O model. For example,
we can use the SegmentPerformance check to compare the performance of
the two models across segments of the sex and relationship status
features.

.. code:: ipython3

    from deepchecks.tabular.checks import SegmentPerformance
    # For a reason that has to do with the way h2o handles multiprocessing, we must change the parallel_backend from
    # loky to threading for all the of the checks to be able to compute while the h2o model is inferring.
    from sklearn.utils import parallel_backend
    with parallel_backend('threading', n_jobs=2):
        result_h2o = SegmentPerformance(feature_1='sex', feature_2='relationship').run(test_ds, h2o_dc_gbm)
        
    result_skl = SegmentPerformance(feature_1='sex', feature_2='relationship').run(test_ds, skmodel)

.. parsed-literal::

    Calculating permutation feature importance. Expected to finish in 56 seconds

.. code:: ipython3

    result_h2o

.. code:: ipython3

    result_skl

We see that the scikit-learn model, apart from being worse overall, is
specifically worse (a drop in accuracy of 0.6) at predicting the income

> of Females with a relationship status of “Others”.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of females with a relationship status of “Others”.
```

============================
H2O
============================

`H2O <https://docs.h2o.ai/h2o/latest-stable/h2o-docs/automl.html>`__ is
a widely used AutoML framework, written in Java but with multiple fully
implemented API libraries, including one in python. In this example,
we’ll be showing how you can effortlessly test your H2O model with
deepchecks in the exact same way you can test any sklearn model.

This example can be run using

> `collab <https://colab.research.google.com/github/deepchecks/deepchecks/tree/examples/integrations/h2o/deepchecks_h2o_tutorial.ipynb>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`colab <https://colab.research.google.com/github/deepchecks/deepchecks/tree/examples/integrations/h2o/deepchecks_h2o_tutorial.ipynb>`__.
```

============================
H2O
============================

`H2O <https://docs.h2o.ai/h2o/latest-stable/h2o-docs/automl.html>`__ is
a widely used AutoML framework, written in Java but with multiple fully
implemented API libraries, including one in python. It it's ease of use and powerful results make it popular for
benchmarking and production-grade use alike.

Check out our interactive `example notebook <https://colab.research.google.com/github/deepchecks/deepchecks/tree/examples/integrations/h2o/deepchecks_h2o_tutorial.ipynb>`__,
demonstrating how to effortlessly test your H2O model with deepchecks in the exact same way
you can test any sklearn model!

> In this example includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example notebook includes:
```

-------------------------

> 1. Training a simpel H2O model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Training a simple H2O model.
```

> 2. How to use deepchecks to get beautiful plots comparing it's performance to an sklearn model.
> 3. Using deepchecks to understand the deeper differences between the models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Demonstrating how use deepchecks on the H2O model to run a check. We'll run a deepchecks model performance check , that generates a detailed plot for model comparison (we'll compare the H2O model's performance to a a scikit-learn based model).
3. Using deepchecks for gaining a deeper understanding about the difference in performance between the two models.
```

> In short:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quick peek at the code for running the check on an H2O-based model:
```
